Add FastAPI tutorial (#3)
luabud/vscode-docs: docs/python/tutorial-fastapi.md

![Check box selected to install dependencies from requirements.txt file](images/fastapi-tutorial/create_environment_select_requirements.png)

The virtual environment will be created, the dependencies will be automatically installed and the environment will be selected for your workspace to be used by the Python extension.

## Start Coding

Let’s create the application!
1. Create a new Python file by clicking on **File** > **New File…** (`kb(workbench.action.files.newFile)`), and then select "Python File".
2. Save it as `main.py` (`kb(workbench.action.files.saveAs)`) in the `groceries-plugin` folder.
3. Add the following code to `main.py` and save the file:
    ```python
    from fastapi import FastAPI

    app = FastAPI()

    @app.get("/")
    def root():
        return {"message": "Hello World"}
    ```
4. Run the code by starting up the debugger (`kb(workbench.action.debug.start)`)
5. From the drop-down menu, select the **FastAPI** configuration option from the drop-down list:
![Drop down with debugger configuration options, with FastAPI being highlighted.](images/fastapi-tutorial/fastapi_debug_config_option.png)

>     This will invoke uvicorn to start the application server through the debugger, which will allow us to step through the code to inspect its behaviour. You will see something like the following in the terminal:

Reviewer: Use American spelling?

```suggestion
    This will invoke uvicorn to start the application server through the debugger, which will allow us to step through the code to inspect its behavior. You will see something like the following in the terminal:
```

Now let's create a Pydantic model for grocery list items.
1. Create a new Python file (`kb(workbench.action.files.newFile)` and select "Python File")
2. Add the following lines to the file, and then save it in the `groceries-plugin` folder as `models.py` (`kb(workbench.action.files.saveAs)`):
    ```python
    from typing import Optional
    from pydantic import BaseModel

    class ItemPayload(BaseModel):
        item_id: Optional[int]
        item_name: str
        quantity: int
    ```

## Create Routes
Now we need a place to store the grocery list items. For simplicity, let’s start with an empty dictionary.
1. First, let's import all the packages we will need for the sample. Open the main.py file and replace the first import line with the following ones:
    ```python
    from fastapi import FastAPI, HTTPException

    from models import ItemPayload
    ```
2. Now add the following line right below `app = FastAPI()`:
    ```python
    grocery_list: dict[int, ItemPayload] = {}
    ```

>     This creates a new empty dictionary that will receive keys of type int (which will be each item id) and values of the ItemPayload type.

Reviewer: I'd suggest "which will be item ids" or "which will be each item's id".

> We’ll now define routes that will allow us to add and retrieve individual items, as well as list all items in the grocery list.

Reviewer: Should we explain what a "route" is? Or is this a common term that the user is expected to know?

3. Add the following route at the end of the `main.py` file:
    ```python
    # Route to add a item
    @app.post("/items/{item_name}/{quantity}")
    def add_item(item_name: str, quantity: int):
        if quantity <= 0:
            raise HTTPException(status_code=400, detail="Quantity must be greater than 0.")
        # if item already exists, we'll just add the quantity.
        # get all item names
        items_ids = {item.item_name: item.item_id if item.item_id is not None else 0 for item in grocery_list.values()}
        if item_name in items_ids.keys():
            # get index of item_name in item_ids, which is the item_id
            item_id = items_ids[item_name]
            grocery_list[item_id].quantity += quantity
    # otherwise, create a new item
        else:
            # generate an id for the item based on the highest ID in the grocery_list
            item_id = max(grocery_list.keys()) + 1 if grocery_list else 0
            grocery_list[item_id] = ItemPayload(
                item_id=item_id, item_name=item_name, quantity=quantity
            )

>     return {"item": grocery_list[item_id]}

Reviewer 2: Not sure if my rendering is off but looks like this line might not be indented correctly within the function

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        return {"item": grocery_list[item_id]}
```

    ```

>     You might notice Pylance adds inlay hints with the function return type, as well as the types for `item_ids` and `item_id`. You can double click on each suggestion to insert them into the code:

Reviewer 2: When running through this, Pylance didn't add hints for all those in the screenshot, should we consider adding something that says the user can add these in manually as well? I don't want users to think something is wrong with their setup or code because it doesn't match exactly.

Author: added some words to make it clearer that inlay hints are optional in https://github.com/microsoft/vscode-docs/commit/5b8cdfcf5f2f647ca92188167b6efdb98f657a4a. But if you ever see this again @cwebster-99 would you mind filing an issue in the Pylance repo? It sounds like a bug

4. Add a breakpoint next to the if quantity <= 0 statement, by clicking on the left margin of the line number (or `kb(editor.debug.action.toggleBreakpoint)`). This will make the debugger stop prior to the execution of that line, allowing us to inspect the code line by line.
    ![Breakpoint set next to the first line in the add_item function.](images/fastapi-tutorial/debugger_breakpoint.png)

5. Start the debugger (`kb(workbench.action.debug.start)`), and then navigate to http://127.0.0.1:8000/docs in the browser.

    You'll see a Swagger interface with the two endpoints available in the app: `/items` and root (`/`).
    ![Swagger UI displaying two endpoints: /items and /](images/fastapi-tutorial/fastapi_first_swagger_page.png)

6. Click on the down arrow next to the `/items` route to expand it, and click on the "Try it out" button that appears on the right side.
    ![Try it out button displayed next to the /items route in the Swagger UI.](images/fastapi-tutorial/fastapi_tryitout_button.png)

> 7. Add a grocery list item by passing a string to the "item" field, and a number to "quantity". For example, you could provide `{"item" : "apple", "quantity": 2 }`.

Reviewer: Using JSON here for the sample input still seems wrong to me.

Also, later on when `quantity <= 0` is evaluated you say, "as expected, the expression will be evaluated to False." But if the user entered 0 or a negative number here, they will get True. So maybe rather than "For example, you could provide," you should instruct them to provide specific values?

```suggestion
7. Add a grocery list item by passing a string to the "item" field, and a number to "quantity". For example, you could provide apple as the `item_name` and 2 as the `quantity`.
```

8. Click on the "Execute" button.
    ![Execute button displayed below the /items route.](images/fastapi-tutorial/fastapi_execute_button.png)

9. Open VS Code again and notice the debugger has stopped at the breakpoint we set earlier.
    ![Debugger stopped at the breakpoint set in the add_item function.](images/fastapi-tutorial/fastapi_breakpoint_hit.png)

On the left side, you will see all local and global variables defined at this point in the Variables window, under the **Run and Debug** view:

> ![Variables window displayed in the Run and Debug view, with the item and grocery_list variables highlighted.](images/fastapi-tutorial/fastapi_debugger_variables.png)

Reviewer: It seems strange that `grocery_list` is underlined in the image, but there's nothing in the text (currently at least) that says anything about it. For example, "You can see that the list is empty..."

Now let’s leverage VS Code's Debug Console to do some exploration.

> 10.	Select the `quantity <= 0` statement, right-click on the editor and select **Evaluate in Debug Console**:

Reviewer 2: Would it be better to say "highlight" here? I could see users potentially thinking the line being highlighted by the breakpoint is sufficient for this step since the screenshot doesn't show just `quantity <= 0` being highlighted.

Author: I ended up changing the screenshot to show the selection (mostly because I think highlighting is more commonly used in the context of symbols instead of expressions)

    ![Evaluate in Debug Console option displayed in the context menu when right-clicking on a line of code.](images/fastapi-tutorial/fastapi_evaluate_debug_console.png)

    This will open the Debug Console and run the selected expression. As expected, the expression will be evaluated to `False`.

> The Debug Console can be a powerful tool to quickly test expressions and better understand the state of your code at the time of the breakpoint. You can also use it to run arbitrary code, such as calling functions or printing variables. Learn more about Python debugging in VS Code in the [Python tutorial](python-tutorial.md#configure-and-run-the-debugger).

Reviewer: Seems like "a breakpoint" is better since we're suggesting something the user might take advantage of in the future.

```suggestion
The Debug Console can be a powerful tool to quickly test expressions and better understand the state of your code at the time of a breakpoint. You can also use it to run arbitrary code, such as calling functions or printing variables. Learn more about Python debugging in VS Code in the [Python tutorial](python-tutorial.md#configure-and-run-the-debugger).
```

> Finally, let's add the remaining routes for the application so we can list all items or specific items, as well as remove them from our grocery list. You can leave the debugger running as it will automatically reload the application when you save the changes you'll make in the next step.

Reviewer 2: Should we have the user remove the breakpoint? When I replaced the code in main.py the breakpoint no longer aligned with the if statement.

Reviewer: Also, should we tell them to press the debugger play button (or whatever the right term is)? I was still paused at the breakpoint at this point.

You can now open the `/docs` page again and test the new routes, leveraging the debugger and the debug console to better understand the code execution. Once you're done, you can stop the debugger (`kb(workbench.action.debug.stop)`).

## Set up the data storage
At this point, you already have a working version of the application with the base functionality. This section will guide you through setting up data storage for persistence, but you can choose to skip it if you're happy with what you've learned already.

So far we are storing the data in a dictionary, which is not ideal because all of the data will be lost when the application is restarted.

To persist the data, we will use [Redis](https://redis.io/), which is an open source in-memory data structure store. Due to its speed and versatility, Redis is commonly used as a data storage system in a wide range of applications, including web applications, real-time analytics systems, caching layers, this tutorial, and more.

If you are already working on **GitHub Codespaces** with our existing template, you can skip directly to the ["Replace the database"](#replace-the-database) section.

> If you are on Windows, you can work with Redis by setting up either a [Docker container](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop/), a [GitHub Codespace](https://github.com/features/codespaces) or through [WSL](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/) (Windows Subsystem for Linux). In this tutorial we will cover the set up using Docker containers, but you can refer to the [section above](#github-codespaces) for instructions on how to set up a GitHub Codespace.

Reviewer: "In this tutorial we will cover the set up using Docker containers" -- this feels awkward to me.
```suggestion
If you are on Windows, you can work with Redis by setting up either a [Docker container](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop/), a [GitHub Codespace](https://github.com/features/codespaces) or through [WSL](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/) (Windows Subsystem for Linux). In this tutorial we will use a Docker container, but you can refer to the [section above](#github-codespaces) for instructions on how to set up a GitHub Codespace.
```

For the steps below, make sure you have the following requirements installed on your machine:

#### Requirements
-	[Docker for Windows](https://www.docker.com/)
-	[Dev Containers extension for VS Code](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode-remote.remote-containers)

#### Create the Dev Container configuration
1. Open the Command Palette and run the “Dev Container: Add Dev Container Configuration Files…"
2. Select "Python 3"
    ![Python 3 option selected in the Dev Container configuration files list.](images/fastapi-tutorial/devcontainers_python3.png)
3. Select the default version.

We can optionally install features to be included in the container. For this tutorial, we will install [Redis Server](https://github.com/itsmechlark/features/tree/main/src/redis-server), which is a community contributed feature that installs and adds the proper dev container set up for Redis.

4. Select "Redis Server" as an additional feature to be installed, press "OK", and then select "Keep Defaults".
    ![Redis Server option selected in the Dev Container configuration files list.](images/fastapi-tutorial/devcontainers_redis_server_feature.png)

> This will create a `.devcontainer` folder in your workspace, with a `devcontainer.json` file. Let's make some edits to this file so the container setup can include steps such as installing the VS Code extensions we'll need as well as the project dependencies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will create a `.devcontainer` folder in your workspace, with a `devcontainer.json` file. Let's make some edits to this file so the container setup will include steps such as installing the VS Code extensions we'll need as well as the project dependencies.
```

5. Open the `devcontainer.json` file.

> 6. Locate the content below and remove the comment (`//`) from that line, so the dependencies can be installed once the container is created:

Reviewer 2: I also had to add a `,` after the features block to handle the red squiggles. Not sure if it is worth calling something out here so the user is able to easily handle this error.

    ```
    "postCreateCommand": "pip3 install --user -r requirements.txt",
    ```
7. Add the following setting to `devcontainer.json`:
    ```
        // Use 'postCreateCommand' to run commands after the container is created.
        "postCreateCommand": "pip3 install --user -r requirements.txt",

        // Configure tool-specific properties.
        "customizations": {
            "vscode": {
                "extensions": [
                    "ms-python.python", //Python extension ID
                    "ms-python.vscode-pylance" //Pylance extension ID
                ]
            }
        }
    ```
8. Save the file.

> 9. Select the "Reopen in Container" button from the notification that will show up on the bottom right corner.

Reviewer: I saw the "Reopen in Container" popup notification when I was going through the tutorial on Friday, but I didn't see it this time. IIRC, it doesn't time out, so I couldn't have just missed it? I ran the command via the Command Palette.

Author: Added the command as well

    You can learn more about dev container configuration in the [documentation](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/devcontainers/containers#_create-a-devcontainerjson-file).
    > Note: it may take several minutes to build the container, depending on internet speed and machine performance.

Once it's done, you will have a fully configured Linux-based workspace with Python 3 and Redis Server installed.

Once the container is set up, you will notice an indicator on the bottom left corner of VS Code:
![Dev Container indicator displayed on the bottom left corner of VS Code.](images/fastapi-tutorial/devcontainer_indicator.png)

> You should now be ready to move on to the next section, where we will replace the data storage.

Reviewer: After running "Reopen in Container" with a fresh project and the extensions listed in the devcontainer.json, the Python and Pylance extensions were not installed in the container. I was able to manually install them by clicking "Install in Dev Container: Python 3" on the Python extension though.

![image](https://github.com/luabud/vscode-docs/assets/12820898/2c518cc8-0e76-4f81-bd0a-5adbd58e814e)

Author: I'll add a "workaround" note to install the extension if it isn't installed

Author: added the workaround in https://github.com/microsoft/vscode-docs/commit/5b8cdfcf5f2f647ca92188167b6efdb98f657a4a

## Replace the database

> 1. In the `main.py` file, replace the `grocery_list = {}` in the beginning of the file with the lines below:

Reviewer 2: Updating the match what we prompted the user to paste in the file most recently. 
```suggestion
1. In the `main.py` file, replace the `grocery_list: dict[int, ItemPayload] = {}` in the beginning of the file with the lines below:
```

    ```python
    redis_client = redis.StrictRedis(host='0.0.0.0', port=6379, db=0, decode_responses=True)
    ```
Pylance will display an error message because redis hasn’t been imported yet.

> 2. Click on "redis" in the editor, and select the light bulb the shows up (or `kb(editor.action.quickFix)`). Then select "Add 'import redis'".

Reviewer 2: Weird, "import redis" wasn't an option in my list of quick fix's 😮 Should we reframe this as "add "import redis" at the top of your file one way may be choosing a quick fix".

Reviewer: Is the right Python environment selected? I hit a similar issue.

Reviewer: Luciana had told me that the user needs to select the "container interpreter". It wasn't clear to me what that meant looking at the options I had (see below), but switching did help in my case.

![image](https://github.com/luabud/vscode-docs/assets/12820898/14772ded-00e1-4223-8a59-a28a61e8b592)

Reviewer 2: Interesting - I had the same options and wasn't clear on the best approach as well. I was able to get "import redis" after selecting the recommended interpreter and reinstalling redis in the new environment.

Reviewer 2: Might be beneficial to call out selecting the container interpreter since we both got tripped up there!

Author: I'm not sure why this is not being set automatically, it definitely should be.

Author: I'll have to add a workaround note here too just in case

Author: added the workaround in https://github.com/microsoft/vscode-docs/commit/5b8cdfcf5f2f647ca92188167b6efdb98f657a4a

3. Delete the line with the content below:
    ```python
    items_ids = {item.item_name: item.item_id if item.item_id is not None else 0 for item in grocery_list.values()}
    ```
    And replace it with:
    ```python
      item_id = redis_client.hget("item_name_to_id", item_name)
     ```

Note that Pylance raises a problem with this change. This is because the `hget` method returns either `str`, or `None` (if the item doesn’t exist). However, the lines below the code that we haven’t replaced yet expect `item_id` to be of type `int`. Let’s address it by renaming the `item_id` symbol.

4. Rename `item_id` with `item_id_str` by selecting the symbol and running the **Rename Symbol** command (`kb(editor.action.rename)`).

    This will rename all occurrences of the symbol in the file, including the one in the `return` statement.

> 5. Pylance should show a variable type hint next to `item_id_str`. Double click to accept it:

Reviewer: It doesn't because the `item_id` assignments in the `if`/`else` block just below the replaced line were also renamed. And on those lines `item_id_str` (used to be `item_id`) is already annotated, as an `int`.

If I remove those `int` annotations, I get the `str | None` inlay hint.

Author: ha, good point. I didn't have the type hints in the beginning when I tried the rename symbol flow.  To be consistent with the code sample I ended up casting item_id as an int in the beginning.

    ![Variable type hint displayed next to the item_id_str variable.](images/fastapi-tutorial/pylance_redis_typehint.png)

6. If the item doesn't exist, then `item_id_str` will be None. So now we can delete the line with the following content:
    ```python

>     if item_name in items_names:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    if item_name in items_ids.keys():
```

    ```
    And replace it with:
    ```python
    if item_id_str is not None:
    ```
Now that we have the item ID in a string, we just need to convert it to an `int` and add the quantity provided to the item. Because the redis hash we have so far only maps item names to their IDs, we now need to map item IDs to their names and quantity. One way to do that is to create hashes for each item, in the format `"item_id:{item_id}"`, and add "name" and "quantity" fields to it.

7.	Delete the code within the `if` block:
    ```python

>     item_id: int = items_ids[item_name]
>     grocery_list[item_id].quantity += quantity

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    item_id_str = items_ids[item_name]
    grocery_list[item_id_str].quantity += quantity
```

    ```
    And add the following, to convert the `item_id` to an `int`, and then to increment the quantity of the item by calling the `hincrby` method from redis:

    ```python
    item_id = int(item_id_str)
    redis_client.hincrby(f"item_id:{item_id}", "quantity", quantity)
    ```

We now only need to replace the code for when the item does not exist, i.e. `item_id_str` is `None`. In this case, we will generate a new `item_id`, create a new redis hash for the item, and then add the provided item names and quantity.
To generate a new `item_id`, let’s use the `incr` method from redis, passing a new hash "item_ids". When this method is run for the first time, it will create the item_ids hash with a unique number, and then each time it's run it will generate an incremental number and store it in this hash.

8. Delete the line with the following content:
    ```python

>     item_id: int = max(grocery_list.keys()) + 1 if grocery_list else 0

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    item_id_str = max(grocery_list.keys()) + 1 if grocery_list else 0
```

    ```
    And add the following:
    ```python
    item_id: int = redis_client.incr("item_ids")
    ```

Now we will add the item to the redis hash, using the `hset` method and by providing a mapping of fields or keys (`item_id`, `quantity` and `name`), and the values (the item’s newly created id, and its provided name and quantity).

9.	Delete the line with the following content:
    ```python

>     grocery_list[item_id] = ItemPayload(
>             item_id=item_id, item_name=item_name, quantity=quantity
>         )

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    grocery_list[item_id_str] = ItemPayload(
            item_id=item_id_str, item_name=item_name, quantity=quantity
        )
```

    ```
    And replace it with the following:
    ```python
    redis_client.hset(
                f"item_id:{item_id}",
                mapping={
                    "item_id": item_id,
                    "item_name": item_name,
                    "quantity": quantity,
                })
    ```

Now we only need to map the newly created ID to the item name by setting the hash we referenced in the beginning, `item_name_to_id`.

10.	Add this line to the end of the route, inside the `else` block:
    ```python
    redis_client.hset("item_name_to_id", item_name, item_id)
    ```

11. Delete the line with the following content:
    ```python

>     return {"item": grocery_list[item_id]}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    return {"item": grocery_list[item_id_str]}
```

    ```
    And replace it with:
    ```python
    return {"item": ItemPayload(item_id=item_id, item_name=item_name, quantity=quantity)}
    ```

12.	If you would like, you can try to do a similar replacement for the other routes. Otherwise, you can just replace the entire content of the file with the lines below:
    ```python
    @app.get("/")
    def home(request: Request) -> dict[str, str]:
        url = str(request.base_url)
        return {"message": f"Add /docs to the end of the URL to access the Swagger UI."}

    # Route to add an item
    @app.post("/items/{item_name}/{quantity}")

>     def add_item(item_name: str, quantity: int) -> dict[str, ItemPayload]:

Reviewer 2: Not sure if it is rendering weird for everyone but the contents inside this function isn't showing as indented.

    if quantity <= 0:
        raise HTTPException(status_code=400, detail="Quantity must be greater than 0.")

    # Check if item already exists
    item_id_str: str | None = redis_client.hget("item_name_to_id", item_name)

    if item_id_str is not None:
        item_id = int(item_id_str)
        redis_client.hincrby(f"item_id:{item_id}", "quantity", quantity)
    else:
        # Generate an id for the item

>         item_id: int = redis_client.incr("item_id")

Reviewer: In step 8 above, we added `redis_client.incr("item_ids")` here. Note that the two hash names are different. Is one of them wrong, or does it not matter?

---
Order: 10
Area: python
TOCTitle: FastAPI Tutorial
ContentId: 0d32bced91aa5c2ee5696fc7995370ae
PageTitle: Python and FastAPI Tutorial in Visual Studio Code
DateApproved:
MetaDescription: Python FastAPI tutorial showing IntelliSense and debugging support in Visual Studio Code, the best Python IDE.
---
# FastAPI Tutorial in Visual Studio Code

> FastAPI is a modern high-performant web framework for building APIs with Python. It is designed to make it easy to build APIs quickly and efficiently while providing features like automatic validation, serialization, and documentation of your API, making it a popular choice for building web services and microservices.

Reviewer 2: Might be nice to link directly to FastAPI docs here as well for users that are interested but don't make it to the end. 

```suggestion
[FastAPI](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/) is a modern high-performant web framework for building APIs with Python. It is designed to make it easy to build APIs quickly and efficiently while providing features like automatic validation, serialization, and documentation of your API, making it a popular choice for building web services and microservices.
```

> In this FastAPI tutorial, we will create a groceries list app using FastAPI. You will be able to understand how to work with FastAPI in the VS Code terminal, editor and debugger. This tutorial does not explore various details about FastAPI itself. For that you can refer to the [FastAPI documentation link at the end of this tutorial](#next-steps)l.

Reviewer 2: We might be able to consider rephrasing this sentence to better frame the learning goal of this tutorial. 
```suggestion
In this FastAPI tutorial, we will create a grocery list app using FastAPI. By the end of the tutorial, you will understand how to work with FastAPI in the VS Code terminal, editor, and debugger. This tutorial does not explore various details about FastAPI itself. For that, you can refer to the [FastAPI documentation link at the end of this tutorial](#next-steps)l.
```

> In this FastAPI tutorial, we will create a grocery list app using FastAPI. By the end of the tutorial, you will understand how to work with FastAPI in the VS Code terminal, editor, and debugger. This tutorial does not explore various details about FastAPI itself. For that, you can refer to the [FastAPI documentation link at the end of this tutorial](#next-steps).

Reviewer: The `next-steps` link here feels weird to me. Click here to jump to the end of the document and then search for the link you really wanted. :)

> In this FastAPI tutorial, we will create a grocery list app using FastAPI. By the end of the tutorial, you will understand how to work with FastAPI in the VS Code terminal, editor, and debugger. This tutorial does not explore various details about FastAPI itself. For that, you can refer to the [FastAPI documentation link at the end of this tutorial](#next-steps).

Reviewer: "various" seems like the wrong word. Maybe:
```suggestion
In this FastAPI tutorial, we will create a grocery list app using FastAPI. By the end of the tutorial, you will understand how to work with FastAPI in the VS Code terminal, editor, and debugger. This tutorial is not a FastAPI deep dive. For that, you can refer to the [FastAPI documentation link at the end of this tutorial](#next-steps).
```

If you have any problems, you can search for answers or ask a question on the [Python extension Discussions Q&A](https://github.com/microsoft/vscode-python/discussions/categories/q-a).

## Set up the project
There are different ways you can set up your project for this tutorial. We will cover how you can set it up in [GitHub Codespaces](TODO: add link to section below) and in [VS Code on your local machine](TODO: ADD Link to section below).

## GitHub Codespaces
You can set up this project to develop in [GitHub Codespaces](https://github.com/features/codespaces), where you can code, debug, and run your app remotely in a Codespace. A Codespace allows you to access a fully-configured development environment hosted in the cloud, eliminating the need for local setup. This environment includes your project's dependencies, tools, and extensions, ensuring a consistent and reproducible development experience. It streamlines collaboration by providing real-time editing, integrated version control, and easy access to debugging and testing tools, all while maintaining the security and reliability of your project.

> To set it up for this tutorial, navigate to the [FastAPI template repository]<TODO: add link to template repo>. This template contains all the necessary configurations and dependencies to quickly get started with FastAPI development in a GitHub Codespace. Next, select Code -> Codespaces -> Create Codespace on <main> to create and open a Codespace for your project.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To set it up for this tutorial, navigate to the [FastAPI template repository]<TODO: add link to template repo>. This template contains all the necessary configurations and dependencies to quickly get started with FastAPI development in a GitHub Codespace. Next, select **Code** -> **Codespaces** -> **Create Codespace on <main>** to create and open a Codespace for your project.
```

Once you're done, you can continue with the [Start Coding](#start-coding) section below.

### Locally in VS Code
To successfully complete this tutorial in [VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/), you need to first setup your Python development environment. Specifically, this tutorial requires:
- Python 3 (check the [installation guide](python-tutorial.md#install-a-python-interpreter) if you don’t have it installed)
- [Python extension for VS Code](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-python.python) (For additional details on installing extensions, see [Extension Marketplace](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/extension-marketplace))

> In this section, we will create a folder to be open as a workspace in VS Code, set up a Python virtual environment, install the project’s dependencies and write the first lines of our FastAPI app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this section, we will create a folder to be opened as a workspace in VS Code, set up a Python virtual environment, install the project’s dependencies and write the first lines of our FastAPI app.
```

> 1.	On your file system, create a project folder for this tutorial, such as `groceries-plugin``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.	In your file system, create a project folder for this tutorial, such as `groceries-plugin``.
```

2.	Open this new folder in VS Code (**File** > **Open Folder…** or `kb(workbench.action.files.openFolder)`).

> Now, let’s create a requirements.txt file listing the dependencies we wish to install for our application. The requirements.txt file is a common practice in Python development, used to specify the libraries and their versions that your project relies on. This file helps ensure that anyone working on the project can recreate a similar development environment, making it a convenient component for maintaining consistency across different development environments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, let’s create a requirements.txt file listing the dependencies we wish to install for our application. The requirements.txt file is a common practice in Python development, used to specify the libraries that your project relies on and their versions. This file helps ensure that anyone working on the project can recreate a similar development environment, making it a convenient component for maintaining consistency across different development environments.
```

We will want to install FastAPI for creating our app, uvicorn to work as the server, and redis and type-redis for handling data storage and interacting with a Redis database.

> 3. Create a new file in VS Code (**File** > **New File** or `kb(workbench.action.files.newUntitledFile)`).

Reviewer: After File > New File, I was prompted to select a file type. Should we mention that selection to the user? Oh, maybe you meant to say File > New Text File? I just noticed that in the menu.

![image](https://github.com/luabud/vscode-docs/assets/12820898/625e8ef2-8c87-4a7e-82f5-4696db07d62c)

Author: great call out! I meant new test file. Thanks!

4. Add the following content to it:
    ```
    fastapi
    redis
    types-redis
    uvicorn
    ```
5.	Save the file (`kb(workbench.action.files.save)`) and name it requirements.txt
6.	Create a virtual environment by opening the Command Palette (`kb(workbench.action.showCommands)`) and running the **Python: Create Environment** command.
7. When asked by the environment type, select **Venv**:
![Drop down with "Venv" or "Conda" as options for environments that can be created with the Python: Create Environment command.](images/environments/create_environment_dropdown.png)

8. Then select the latest version of Python available on your machine:

> ![List of available global envionrmetns that can be use to create a virtual environment.](images/fastapi-tutorial/create_environment_interpreters_list.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
![List of available global environments that can be used to create a virtual environment.](images/fastapi-tutorial/create_environment_interpreters_list.png)
```

9. Select the requirements.txt file from the drop-down list, so our dependencies are automatically installed, and then select "OK":
![Check box selected to install dependencies from requirements.txt file](images/fastapi-tutorial/create_environment_select_requirements.png)

> The virtual environment will be created, our dependencies will be automatically installed and the environment will be selected for your workspace to be used by the Python extension.

Reviewer: You say "our dependencies" but "your workspace". The below in "Start Coding" you say "our application". Is this intentional? For example, the dependencies are the dependencies of the tutorial that Microsoft (us/our) created, but the workspace belongs to the user (you/your)? Seemed a little strange to me.

Author: Great point. I replaced most of the instances with "the", but left some where I thought it was appropriate (e.g. "our grocery list").

> The virtual environment will be created, our dependencies will be automatically installed and the environment will be selected for your workspace to be used by the Python extension.

Reviewer: Maybe we should warn the user that creating the environment might take a minute?

## Start Coding

Let’s create our application!
1. Create a new Python file by clicking on **File** > **New File…** (`kb(workbench.action.files.newFile)`), and then select "Python File".
2. Save it as `main.py` (`kb(workbench.action.files.saveAs)`) in the `groceries-plugin` folder.

> 3. Add the following code to the file:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Add the following code to `main.py` and save the file:
```

    This will invoke uvicorn to start the application server through the debugger, which will allow us to step through the code to inspect its behaviour. You will see something like the following in the terminal:

    ![Uvicorn server running message displayed in the terminal, with an URL to access the app.](images/fastapi-tutorial/fastapi_debug_terminal.png)

6. `Ctrl`` + click the http://127.0.0.1:8000/ URL in the terminal to open your default browser to that address:
![Hello World message displayed in the browser.](images/fastapi-tutorial/helloworld_browser.png)
7. Stop the debugger by clicking on the stop icon in the debug toolbar, or through `kb(workbench.action.debug.stop)`.

## Create a model for grocery list items
Now that we have our FastAPI app working, let’s define our grocery list items by creating a Pydantic model.
Pydantic is a data validation and parsing library that integrates seamlessly with FastAPI. It allows you to define data models using Python classes with [type hints](https://docs.python.org/3/library/typing.html) for automatic validation and parsing of incoming data (which are called payloads) in API requests.

> Pylance, the default language server for Python in VS Code, supports a few type hinting features that can be helpful for working with Pydantic models and FastAPI. Let's enable a few of them:

Reviewer: Double use of the word "few" seems awkward
```suggestion
Pylance, the default language server for Python in VS Code, supports type hinting features that can be helpful for working with Pydantic models and FastAPI. Let's enable a few of them:
```

2. Search for "python type checking mode" and set it to "basic" to enable basic type checking. This will enable Pylance to show diagnostics and warnings to catch simple type-related errors. Alternetivaly, you can set it to "strict" to enable more advanced [type checking rules](https://microsoft.github.io/pyright/#/configuration?id=diagnostic-rule-defaults).
    ![Python Analysis Type Checking Mode options (off, basic and strict) in settings UI page.](images/fastapi-tutorial/type_checking_mode_setting.png)
3. Next, search for "Python inlay type hints", and enable inlay hints for Variable Types and Function Return Types:
    ![Two Python Analysis Type Hints settings being enabled in the settings UI page: for Function Return Types and for Variable Types.](images/fastapi-tutorial/function_and_variable_return_type_hint_settings.png)

Now let's create a Pydantic model for grocery list items.
1. Create a new Python file (`kb(workbench.action.files.newFile)` and select "Python File")
2. Add the following lines to the file, and then save it in the `groceries-plugin` folder as `models.py` (`kb(workbench.action.files.saveAs)`):

>     ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ```python
```

    from typing import Optional
    from pydantic import BaseModel

    class ItemPayload(BaseModel):
        item_id: Optional[int]
        item_name: str
        quantity: int
    ```

## Create Routes
Now we need a place to store the grocery list items. For simplicity, let’s start with an empty dictionary.
1. First, let's import all the packages we will need for our sample. Open the main.py file and replace the first import line with the following ones:

>     ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ```python
```

    from fastapi import FastAPI, HTTPException

    from models import ItemPayload
    ```

> 2. Now add the following line right below app = FastAPI():

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Now add the following line right below `app = FastAPI()`:
```

>     ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ```python
```

>     grocery_list: Dict[int, ItemPayload] = {}

Reviewer: Lowercase `dict` or import `Dict` from `typing`, but lowercase is preferred these days.
```suggestion
    grocery_list: dict[int, ItemPayload] = {}
```

    ![Inlay function return and variable type hints being displayed by Pylance throughout the sample code.](images/fastapi-tutorial/pylance_inlay_hints.png)

Now let's see if this route is working as expected. The fastest way to do so is to leverage both VS Code's debugger as well as FastAPI's `/docs` endpoint, which provides information about all the available API routes and allows you to interact with the API to explore their parameters and responses. This documentation is generated dynamically based on the metadata and type hints defined in your FastAPI application.

4. Add a breakpoint next to the if item.quantity <= 0 statement, by clicking on the left margin of the line number (or `kb(editor.debug.action.toggleBreakpoint)`). This will make the debugger stop prior to the execution of that line, allowing us to inspect the code line by line.
    ![Breakpoint set next to the first line in the add_item function.](images/fastapi-tutorial/debugger_breakpoint.png)

5. Start the debugger (`kb(workbench.action.debug.start)`), and then navigate to http://127.0.0.1:8000/docs in the browser.

>     You'll see a Swagger-like interface with the two endpoints available in your app: `/items` and root (`/`).

Reviewer: The browser tab title is "FastAPI - Swagger UI" so I guess it's not "Swagger-like" but actually Swagger?

    ![Swagger UI displaying two endpoints: /items and /](images/fastapi-tutorial/fastapi_first_swagger_page.png)

6. Click on the down arrow next to the `/items` route to expand it, and click on the "Try it out" button that appears on the right side.
    ![Try it out button displayed next to the /items route in the Swagger UI.](images/fastapi-tutorial/fastapi_tryitout_button.png)

> 7. Add a grocery list item by passing a string to the "item" field, and a number to "quantity". For example, you could provide `{"item_id": 0, "item" : "apple", "quantity": 2 }`.

Reviewer: It seems strange to use the JSON format here and also the user can't provide an `item_id` in this scenario.

Oh, now I see that in the screenshots after step 3, `add_item` takes a single `ItemPayload` parameter, whereas in the code that we copied in step 3 there are two parameters: `item_name` and `quantity`.

Seems like you changed your mind at some point and not everything is in sync.

8. Click on the "Execute" button.

>     ![Execute button displayed below the /items route.](images/fastapi-tutorial/fastapi_execute_button.png)

Reviewer: I think this image shows the UI after the user presses the Execute button, rather than before.

Reviewer 2: Perhaps a better screenshot would be inputting the 2 values and then highlighting the execute button at this point
<img width="714" alt="image" src="https://github.com/luabud/vscode-docs/assets/60238438/3d9c6e77-1dec-41ed-bdd2-83f22ea75c7a">

On the left side, you will see all local and global variables defined at this point in the Variables window, under the **Run and Debug** view:
![Variables window displayed in the Run and Debug view, with the item and grocery_list variables highlighted.](images/fastapi-tutorial/fastapi_debugger_variables.png)

Now let’s leverage VS Code's Debug Console to do some exploration.

10.	Select the `item.quantity <= 0` statement, right-click on the editor and select **Evaluate in Debug Console**:
    ![Evaluate in Debug Console option displayed in the context menu when right-clicking on a line of code.](images/fastapi-tutorial/fastapi_evaluate_debug_console.png)

    This will open the Debug Console and run the selected expression. As expected, the expression will be evaluated to `False`.

The Debug Console can be a powerful tool to quickly test expressions and better understand the state of your code at the time of the breakpoint. You can also use it to run arbitrary code, such as calling functions or printing variables. Learn more about Python debugging in VS Code in the [Python tutorial](python-tutorial.md#configure-and-run-the-debugger).

> Finally, let's add the remaining routes for our application so we can list all and specific items, as well as remove them from our grocery list.

Reviewer 2: Got a little tripped up on this sentence. Not sure if this is the best reword. 
```suggestion
Finally, let's add the remaining routes for our application so we can list all items or specific items, as well as remove them from our grocery list.
```

> 11. Replace the content in `main.py` with the code below:

Reviewer: Might be worth telling the user that we want them to keep the debugger running here.

    ```python

>     from typing import Dict

Reviewer: Should use `dict` instead of importing `Dict`.

        if not redis_client.hexists(f"item_id:{item_id}", "item_id"):
            raise HTTPException(status_code=404, detail="Item not found.")

        item_quantity: str | None = redis_client.hget(f"item_id:{item_id}", "quantity")

        # if quantity to be removed is higher or equal to item's quantity, delete the item
        if item_quantity is None:
            existing_quantity: int = 0
        else:
            existing_quantity: int = int(item_quantity)
        if existing_quantity <= quantity:
            item_name: str | None = redis_client.hget(f"item_id:{item_id}", "item_name")
            redis_client.hdel("item_name_to_id", f"{item_name}")
            redis_client.hdel(f"item_id:{item_id}", "item_id")
            return {"result": "Item deleted."}
        else:
            redis_client.hincrby(f"item_id:{item_id}", "quantity", -quantity)
            return {"result": f"{quantity} items removed."}
    ```

12. Save the file (`kb(workbench.action.files.save)`). The application should automatically reload.

You can now open the `/docs` page again and test the new routes, leveraging the debugger and the debug console to better understand the code execution.

> ## Set up the data storage

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure if we should set this part as optional, but it may be worth calling out that at this point the user has a working version of this app with the base functionality. This section is pretty lengthy and I can see some users not wanting to go through the data storage setup but feel like they need to in order to "complete" the tutorial if that makes sense.

> ## Set up the data storage

Reviewer: Should we tell the user to stop the debugger at some point?

> So far we are storing our data in a dictionary, which is not ideal because all ouf our data will be lost when the application is restarted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So far we are storing our data in a dictionary, which is not ideal because all of our data will be lost when the application is restarted.
```

> So far we are storing our data in a dictionary, which is not ideal because all ouf our data will be lost when the application is restarted.

Author: ```suggestion
At this point, you already have a working version of the application with the base functionality. This section will guide you through setting up data storage for persistence, but you can choose to skip it if you're happy with what you've learned already.

So far we are storing our data in a dictionary, which is not ideal because all ouf our data will be lost when the application is restarted.
```

Author: @cwebster-99 what do you think about adding something like this to the start of the section?  🤔

Reviewer 2: I think this is great!

To persist our data, we will use [Redis](https://redis.io/), which is an open source in-memory data structure store. Due to its speed and versatility, Redis is commonly used as a data storage system in a wide range of applications, including web applications, real-time analytics systems, caching layers, this tutorial, and more.

If you are already working on **GitHub Codespaces** with our existing template, you can skip directly to the ["Replace the database"](#replace-the-database) section.

If you are on Windows, you can work with Redis by setting up either a [Docker container](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop/), a [GitHub Codespace](https://github.com/features/codespaces) or through [WSL](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/) (Windows Subsystem for Linux). In this tutorial we will cover the set up using Docker containers, but you can refer to the [section above](#github-codespaces) for instructions on how to set up a GitHub Codespace.

> Otherwise, if you are on a Linux or a macOS machine, you can just install Redis by following the [instructions on their website](https://redis.io/docs/getting-started/), and then skip to the ["Replace the database"](#replace-the-database) section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Otherwise, if you are on a Linux or a macOS machine, you can install Redis by following the [instructions on their website](https://redis.io/docs/getting-started/), and then skip to the ["Replace the database"](#replace-the-database) section.
```

### Setting up a Docker Container on Windows
The Dev Container extension for VS Code offers a simple way to configure a Linux-based workspace in your Windows machine, putting your entire project and its dependencies as well as tools you need for your project into a tidy container.
For the steps below, make sure you have the following requirements installed on your machine:

#### Requirements
-	[Docker for Windows](https://www.docker.com/)
-	[Dev Containers extension for VS Code](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode-remote.remote-containers)

#### Create the Dev Container configuration
1. Open the Command Palette and run the “Dev Container: Add Dev Container Configuration Files…"
2. Select "Python 3"
    ![Python 3 option selected in the Dev Container configuration files list.](images/fastapi-tutorial/devcontainers_python3.png)
3. Select the default version.

We can optionally install features to be included in the container. For this tutorial, we will install [Redis Server](https://github.com/itsmechlark/features/tree/main/src/redis-server), which is a community contributed feature that installs and adds the proper dev container set up for Redis.

> 4. Select "Redis Server" as an additional feature to be installed, and then press "OK".

Reviewer: After pressing OK, I got this which isn't covered in the instructions.

![image](https://github.com/luabud/vscode-docs/assets/12820898/2888f6cd-3598-4c73-9593-6bc5e6978af5)

    ![Redis Server option selected in the Dev Container configuration files list.](images/fastapi-tutorial/devcontainers_redis_server_feature.png)

This will create a `.devcontainer` folder in your workspace, with a `devcontainer.json` file.

> 5. Select the "Reopen in Container" button from the notification that will show up on the bottom right corner once the dev container configuration is added to your workspace, under the `.devcontainer` folder.

Reviewer: The end of this sentence seems unnecessary since it's basically saying "once you complete the previous step"?

```suggestion
5. Select the "Reopen in Container" button from the notification that will show up on the bottom right corner.
```

>     You can learn more about dev containers configuration in the [documentation](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/devcontainers/containers#_create-a-devcontainerjson-file).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    You can learn more about dev container configuration in the [documentation](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/devcontainers/containers#_create-a-devcontainerjson-file).
```

> Once the container is set up, you will notice an indicator on the bottom left corner of VS Code:

Reviewer: Might want to warn the user that this may take a long time. For me on my slow home internet it was almost 30 minutes.

![Dev Container indicator displayed on the bottom left corner of VS Code.](images/fastapi-tutorial/devcontainer_indicator.png)

> You should be now ready to move on to the next section, where we will replace our data storage.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You should now be ready to move on to the next section, where we will replace our data storage.
```

## Replace the database

> 1. In the `main.py` file, replace the `grocery_list = {}` in the beginning of the file with the lines below:

Reviewer: That grocery_list line doesn't exist anymore. We overwrote the whole file in step 11 above. The redis_client line is already present.

Actually all of the changes that are covered in these steps have already been made in the code I copied above.

Author: thanks for the callout, I had pasted the wrong sample 😅

    ```python
    redis_client = redis.StrictRedis(host='0.0.0.0', port=6379, db=0, decode_responses=True)
    ```

> Pylance will display an error message because redis hasn’t been imported yet.

Reviewer: I didn't see any diagnostics (or semantic highlighting, etc) from Pylance at this point, because Pylance wasn't installed in the dev container.

If it was supposed to be installed, I'm guessing this was due to networking issues on my side.

![image](https://github.com/luabud/vscode-docs/assets/12820898/e13d9500-6dc0-44e5-92f8-a0fa535c4ebe)

Author: I addressed this and one of the comments below regarding the setup by asking users to uncomment the pip install command from devcontainer.json and by adding the extensions we want to be installed too

You can also set up Pylance to automatically add imports by looking for the "Auto Import Completions" setting in the Settings UI page (`kb(workbench.action.openSettings)`) and enabling it.

We now have a Redis client object that connects to a Redis server running on the local host (`host="0.0.0.0"`) and listening on port 6379 (`port=6379`). The `db` parameter specifies the Redis database to use. Redis supports multiple databases, and in this code we’re setting to use database 0, which is the default database. We're also passing `decode_responses=True` for the responses to be decoded as strings (instead of bytes).

This client can now be used to perform operations such as getting, setting, and deleting objects in the Redis database.

Let's do some more replacements in our first route `add_item`. Instead of looking into all the keys from our dictionary to find the item name that has been provided, we can fetch that information directly from a redis hash. Let’s assume we will create a hash called `item_name_to_id`, with item names mapped into their IDs once they are added in our app. We can then get the id of the item name we’re receiving by invoking the `hget` method from redis.

> 3. Delete line 17 (TODO: verify line number):

Reviewer: With all the changes involved in this tutorial, I don't think relying on users having exactly the same line numbers as you will be reliable.

Author: Good point. Removed the line references and changed it to "Delete the line with the following content"

    ```python
    items_names = list(grocery_list.values())
    ```
    And replace it with:
    ```python

>       item_id = redis_client.hget("item_name_to_id", item.item_name)

Reviewer: The amount of red squiggles that showed up after this change made me uncomfortable. I wonder if there's a more incremental approach we could take to these changes?

     ```

Note that Pylance raises a problem with this change. This is because the `hget` method returns either `str`, or `None` (if the item doesn’t exist). However, the lines below our code that we haven’t replaced yet expect `item_id` to be of type `int`. Let’s address it by renaming the `item_id` symbol.

4. Rename `item_id` with `item_id_str` by selecting the symbol and running the **Rename Symbol** command (`kb(editor.action.rename)`).

    This will rename all occurrences of the symbol in the file, including the one in the `return` statement.

5. Pylance should show a variable type hint next to `item_id_str`. Double click to accept it:
    ![Variable type hint displayed next to the item_id_str variable.](images/fastapi-tutorial/pylance_redis_typehint.png)

6. If the item doesn't exist, then `item_id_str` will be None. So now we can delete line 18 (TODO: verify line):
    ```python
    if item.item_name in items_names:
    ```
    And replace it with:
    ```python
    if item_id_str is not None:
    ```

> Now that we have the `item_id` in a string, we just need to convert it to an `int` and add the quantity provided to the item. Because the redis hash we have so far only maps item names to their IDs, we now need to to map item IDs to their names and quantity. One way to do that is to create hashes for each item, in the format `"item_id:{item_id}"`, and provide it with "name" and "quantity" fields.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that we have the item id in a string, we just need to convert it to an `int` and add the quantity provided to the item. Because the redis hash we have so far only maps item names to their IDs, we now need to map item IDs to their names and quantity. One way to do that is to create hashes for each item, in the format `"item_id:{item_id}"`, and provide it with "name" and "quantity" fields.
```

> Now that we have the `item_id` in a string, we just need to convert it to an `int` and add the quantity provided to the item. Because the redis hash we have so far only maps item names to their IDs, we now need to to map item IDs to their names and quantity. One way to do that is to create hashes for each item, in the format `"item_id:{item_id}"`, and provide it with "name" and "quantity" fields.

Reviewer: > One way to do that is to create hashes for each item, in the format `"item_id:{item_id}"`, and provide it with "name" and "quantity" fields.

I'm having trouble understanding what you're proposing here. Provide what with name and quantity fields?

Author: Does `One way to do that is to create hashes for each item, in the format `"item_id:{item_id}"`, and add "name" and "quantity" fields to it.` make it clearer?

Reviewer: Maybe the core issue is that I'm not familiar with redis's usage of the word "hash". Is this referring to a hash table where the `item_id` is the key and the `name`/`quantity` are fields on the value? To me "create hashes for each item" sounds like we're running them through a hashing function.

Author: that's a good point. I added a paragraph explaining what Redis hashes are in the beginning:
> In Redis, a hash is a data structure that can store multiple key-value pairs. Let's assue we'll create a hash called `item_name_to_id` to store item names (keys) mapped into their IDs (values) once they are added in the app. We can then get the ID of the item name we’re receiving by invoking the `hget` method from Redis.

 and then tweaked this paragraph to try to clarify a bit:
> Now that we have the item ID as a string, we need to convert it to an `int` and update the quantity for the item. Currently, our Redis hash only maps item names to their IDs. To also map item IDs to their names and quantities, we can create a separate Redis hash for each item. We'll use the format `"item_id:{item_id}"` as our hash name to make retrieval by ID easier, and add "name" and "quantity" fields for each hash.

Author: Added more explanations throughout the redis section trying to explain better the hashes, how they're structured and why we are using more than one hash (https://github.com/microsoft/vscode-docs/commit/5b8cdfcf5f2f647ca92188167b6efdb98f657a4a). Also added more explanations on the replacements to try to explain better what Redis is doing along the way.

7.	Replace lines 19 and 20 with the following, to convert the `item_id` to an `int`, and then incrementing the quantity of our item by calling the `hincrby` method from redis:
    ```python

>     item_id = int(item_id_bytes.decode())

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    item_id = int(item_id_str)
```

    redis_client.hincrby(f"item_id:{item_id}", "quantity", item.quantity)
    ```

> We now only need to replace the code for when the item does not exist, i.e. `item_id_str` is None. In this case, we will generate a new `item_id`, create a new redis hash for our item, and then add the provided item names and quantity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We now only need to replace the code for when the item does not exist, i.e. `item_id_str` is `None`. In this case, we will generate a new `item_id`, create a new redis hash for our item, and then add the provided item names and quantity.
```

To generate a new `item_id`, let’s use the `incr` method from redis, passing a new hash "item_ids". When this method is run for the first time, it will create the item_ids hash with a unique number, and then each time it's run it will generate an incremental number and store it in this hash.

8. Delete line 21 (TODO: verify line):
    ```python
    item_id: int = len(grocery_list)
    ```
    And add the following:
    ```python
    item_id: int = redis_client.incr("item_ids")
    ```

> Now we will add our item to our redis hash, using the `hset` method and by providing a mapping of fields or keys (`item_id`, `quantity` and `name`), and the values (the item’s newly created id, and its provided name and quantity).

Reviewer: Here you use "id" but on line 407 you use "IDs" (capitalized). I personally prefer lowercase, but maybe the vscode docs have a standard?

Author: Great catch. It seems in our other docs we use IDs so I went with that

9.	Delete line 23 (TODO: verify line):
    ```python
    grocery_list[item_id] = item
    ```
    And replace it with:
    ```python
    redis_client.hset(
                f"item_id:{item_id}",
                mapping={
                    "item_id": item_id,
                    "item_name": item.item_name,
                    "quantity": item.quantity,

>                 },

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                })
```

    ```

Now we only need to map our newly created id to the item name by setting the hash we referenced in the beginning, `item_name_to_id`.

> 10.	Add this line to the end of the route, right before the return code:

Reviewer: Not sure what you mean by "before the return code". It sounds like this is supposed to be within the `else` block and the `return` is outside the `if`/`else`. It would be easy for the user to put this line after the `else` block instead of inside it.

        # if quantity to be removed is higher or equal to item's quantity, delete the item
        if item_quantity is None:
            existing_quantity: int = 0
        else:
            existing_quantity: int = int(item_quantity)
        if existing_quantity <= quantity:
            item_name: str | None = redis_client.hget(f"item_id:{item_id}", "item_name")
            redis_client.hdel("item_name_to_id", f"{item_name}")
            redis_client.hdel(f"item_id:{item_id}", "item_id")
            return {"result": "Item deleted."}
        else:
            redis_client.hincrby(f"item_id:{item_id}", "quantity", -quantity)
            return {"result": f"{quantity} items removed."}
    ```

12.	Re-run the debugger to test this application by interacting with the `/docs` route.

## Optional: Set up database deletion
Because our data will be now be persisted by redis, you may want to create a script that will allow you to erase all testing data. For that you can create a new file called `flushdb.py` with the following content:
```python
import redis

redis_client = redis.StrictRedis(host='0.0.0.0', port=6379, db=0, decode_responses=True)
redis_client.flushdb()

```

> Then when you want to reset your database, you can open the flushdb.py file in VS Code and click on the run button on the top-right corner of the editor or run the **Python: Run Python File in Terminal** command.

Reviewer: I got the following error when I tried to run flushdb.py. Maybe because the venv isn't selected, but when I try to select the venv, it isn't in the list of available interpreters.

```text
vscode ➜ /workspaces/groceries-plugin $ /usr/local/bin/python /workspaces/groceries-plugin/flushdb.py
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "/workspaces/groceries-plugin/flushdb.py", line 1, in <module>
    import redis
ModuleNotFoundError: No module named 'redis'
```

![image](https://github.com/luabud/vscode-docs/assets/12820898/79e7dbc1-49d3-48f8-9e20-f2b8a3313c30)

![image](https://github.com/luabud/vscode-docs/assets/12820898/f48a2b1a-1a36-46a6-89c3-b7cf017d5033)

> Then when you want to reset your database, you can open the flushdb.py file in VS Code and click on the run button on the top-right corner of the editor or run the **Python: Run Python File in Terminal** command.

Reviewer: "Run Python File in Terminal" isn't one of the options I see:

![image](https://github.com/luabud/vscode-docs/assets/12820898/0f8d64c1-2bb8-4971-a34c-83e94b32f8c5)

Author: I meant one could click on the arrow, _or_ run the command from the command palette. Made some changes to try to clarify that!

Now we need a place to store the grocery list items. For simplicity, let’s start with an empty dictionary.
1. First, let's import all the packages we will need for the sample. Open the main.py file and replace the first import line with the following ones:
    ```python
    from fastapi import FastAPI, HTTPException

    from models import ItemPayload
    ```
2. Now add the following line right below `app = FastAPI()`:
    ```python
    grocery_list: dict[int, ItemPayload] = {}
    ```

    This creates a new empty dictionary that will receive keys of type int (which will be item ids) and values of the ItemPayload type.

We'll now define routes in our FastAPI application. In the context of web applications, routes are like pathways that map specific URLs to the code that handles them. These routes serve as the entry points for different functionalities within our application. When a client, such as a web browser or another program, sends a request to our application with a particular URL, FastAPI routes that request to the appropriate function (also known as route handler or view function) based on the URL, and that function processes the request and generates a response.

> Let's  proceed with defining routes that will allow us to add and retrieve individual items, as well as list all items in the grocery list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's proceed with defining routes that will allow us to add and retrieve individual items, as well as list all items in the grocery list.
```
